President Joe Biden declared “major war crimes” were being discovered in Ukraine as Russian forces retreat from areas around Kyiv, citing scenes of brutal, cold-blooded executions as rationale for ratcheting up US sanctions on Moscow.“Responsible nations have to come together to hold these perpetrators accountable,” Biden told a union crowd in Washington as the White House announced new sanctions on Russia’s largest financial institutions and number of individuals tied to the Kremlin, including Russian President Vladimir Putin’s two adult daughters.“We will keep raising the economic cost and ratchet up the pain for Putin and further increase Russia’s economic isolation,” Biden said, decrying the intentional targeting of civilians by Russia and heralding a united Western response, even as he acknowledged the battle was still ongoing.Horrific images from the Ukrainian city of Bucha imparted “a sense of brutality and inhumanity left for all the world to see, unapologetically,” Biden said in his remarks as he announced new steps the US was taking to punish those responsible.The sanctions are designed to tighten the vise on Russia’s economy, which has been kneecapped by Western punishment. Still, ever-harsher consequences for the invasion of Ukraine have not appeared to force Putin to ease a brutal campaign that has increasingly targeted civilians.Biden has previously said he believes Putin to be a war criminal, and this week called for a trial to hold Moscow accountable. Still, the process for prosecuting war crimes is complex and lengthy, and questions remain about how and when such accountability could be delivered.US Attorney General Merrick Garland said Wednesday the Justice Department is assisting with the collection of evidence for potential war crimes prosecutions related to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. He said he’d spoken with French and other European officials about the collection of evidence currently underway.And Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Sunday the US was “working to document” war crimes with the goal of providing the information to relevant agencies.White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan also said this week the US would seek information from intelligence services, eyewitness Ukrainians, international organizations and interviews in the global media to build a case.Biden praised Ukraine on Wednesday for sustaining a fight against Russia that prevented it from taking the country’s capital.“Thanks to the bravery, the grit and the fighting spirit of the Ukrainian people Russia has already failed in its initial war aims. Russia wanted to take Ukraine’s capital city Kyiv and topple its democracy and elected government. Today, Kyiv still stands and that government presides,” Biden said.But he cautioned the violence may not end soon.“The fight is far from over,” he said. “This war could continue for a long time.”The “full blocking” sanctions on Russia’s largest financial institution, Sberbank, and its largest private bank, Alfa Bank, are meant to grind Russia’s economy further to a halt. They will prohibit transactions with any American financial institutions and freeze assets held by the banks in the US.“They will not be able to touch any of their money. They will not be able to do any business here,” Biden said.Sberbank holds nearly one-third of Russia’s total banking sector assets, and the White House says that with Wednesday’s sanctions, more than two-thirds of the Russian banking sector are now blocked.“The sad reality is Putin’s war will make it harder for Russians to travel abroad. It means their debit cards may not work. They may only have the option to buy knockoff phones and knockoff clothes, the shelves at stores may be empty,” a senior administration official told reporters.“The reality is the country’s descending into economic and financial and technological isolation and at this rate, it will go back to Soviet-style standards from the 1980s,” the official went on.In targeting Putin’s two adult daughters, the US hopes to freeze any assets the Russian President may be hiding with them, according to the senior administration official. Without detailing which of Putin’s assets could be hiding with Mariya Putina and Katerina Tikhonova, the official said the practice was common among the Russian elite.Members of Russia’s Security Council, including former President and Prime Minister of Russia Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin, are also being targeted by individual sanctions. The US has already sanctioned more than 140 oligarchs and their family members and over 400 Russian government officials, the senior official said.“Look, these oligarchs and their family members are not allowed to hold on to their wealth in Europe and the United States and keep these yachts worth hundreds of millions of dollars, their luxury vacation homes while children in Ukraine are being killed, displaced from their homes every single day,” Biden said in his speech.The new sanctions will cut those individuals off from the US banking system and freeze any assets held in the United States.The White House also announced a ban on new investment in Russia that will be executed in alignment with the G7 and EU. The ban will be implemented with an executive order signed by President Joe Biden.And the US will also apply full blocking sanctions on critical major Russian state-owned enterprises, which will be announced by the Department of Treasury on Thursday. The official also noted Tuesday’s announcement that the Department of Treasury has blocked Russia from making debt payments with dollars stockpiled at US banks.While the US and its allies have imposed the most sweeping sanctions regime targeting a country of the size of Russia in history, officials acknowledge it has done little to shift Putin’s calculation. The threat of the sanctions didn’t deter the invasion itself, and the piling on of economic penalties hasn’t brought Russia any closer to a withdrawal or negotiated settlement since.Pressed about the efficacy of sanctions in ending Putin’s war in Ukraine, the senior official sought to underscore the effect they are having on life in Russia and said Putin would eventually have to reckon with his people.“Even an autocrat like Putin has a social contract with the Russian people. He took away their freedom in exchange for promising stability, and so he’s not giving them stability,” the official said.“The question really is not so much: What can we do and when will that have an effect? I think it’s: What’s the endgame here for Putin? What’s he playing for?” the official said. “This is very clearly becoming a failure for him and at some point he will have to recognize that reality.”=== Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accused Russian troops of indiscriminately killing civilians “just for their pleasure” in an emotionally-charged address to the United Nations Security Council on Tuesday, before questioning the very mandate of the Security Council itself.Zelensky’s speech came a day after he visited the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, where shocking images of bodies in the streets emerged over the weekend.On Tuesday, he related the aftermath of Russia’s retreat from the town in horrifying detail, describing entire families killed, people with their throats slashed, and women raped and killed in front of their children. Zelensky said Russia’s actions were no different from those of a terror group, except that Russia is a permanent member of the UNSC.The Ukrainian leader then criticized the body, asking representatives point blank: “Where is the security that the Security Council needs to guarantee? It is not there, though there is a Security Council.”Zelensky added: “It is obvious that the key institution of the world designed to combat aggression and ensure peace cannot work effectively.“Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of Article 1, Chapter 1 of the UN Charter. What is the purpose of our organization? Its purpose is to maintain and make sure that peace is adhered to. And now the UN charter is violated literally starting with Article 1. And so what is the point of all other Articles?” he asked.At least 1,480 civilians have been killed and at least 2,195 have been injured in Ukraine between the start of the Russian invasion on February 24 and April 4, a UN official said at the meeting, citing updated numbers from the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR). The latest figures on the number of Ukrainian civilians in the conflict had “more than doubled” since the last briefing to the UNSC on March 17.In Bucha, bodies strewn across the streets and in basements were found by human rights groups and documented by independent journalists. Satellite images suggest some bodies had been there since at least March 18.In his damning speech, Zelensky said there was “not a single crime” that the Russians “would not commit,” alleging that Russian troops had “searched for and purposefully killed anyone who served our country.”“They shot and killed women outside their houses when they just tried to call someone … They killed entire families, adults and children and they tried to burn the bodies,” Zelensky said.“I am addressing you on behalf of the people who honor the memory of the deceased every single day and in the memory of the civilians who died, who were shot and killed in the back of their head after being tortured,” he told the UNSC.“Some of them were shot on the streets. Others were thrown into wells, so they died there suffering. They were killed in their apartments, houses, blown up by grenades. Civilians were crushed by tanks while sitting in their cars in the middle of the road, just for their pleasure,” he continued. “Women were raped and killed in front of their children. Their tongues were pulled out only because the aggressor did not hear what they wanted to hear from them.”Zelensky also warned that the horrors found in Bucha would be replicated in other cities across Ukraine. Demanding accountability, he called for any Russians who have given “criminal orders” and “carried out them by killing our people” to be brought before a tribunal, similar to the Nuremberg trials that occurred after World War II when Nazis were put on trial.UN: Civilians were targeted Separately, the United Nations on Tuesday said that the shocking images from Bucha showed “all the signs” that civilians were “directly targeted and directly killed.” In a virtual press briefing, OHCHR spokesperson Liz Throssell said the reports emerging from Bucha and other areas were “very disturbing developments.” She specifically referenced the “disturbing” images of people with their hands tied behind their back and of partially naked women whose bodies have been burnt as further evidence suggesting the direct targeting of individuals. “We have been talking about war crimes in the context of shelling, bombardment, and artillery attacks. Now they need to be investigated. But you could argue there was a military context, for example, to a building being hit. It’s hard to see what was the military context of an individual lying in the street with a bullet to the head or having their bodies burned,” Throssell continued. As the OHCHR is trying to currently gain access to Bucha, she didn’t have “exact information” to share regarding the situation on the ground. Throssell also paid tribute to the “crucial role” that journalists are playing in documenting these scenes, mentioning the “multiple teams” involved in “reporting, analyzing, and sending video footage.” Russia’s response Russia has repeatedly denied the alleged atrocities, despite increasing evidence suggesting otherwise. Vassily Nebenzia, the Russian ambassador to the United Nations responded to Zelensky’s remarks, calling the accusations against the Russian military “ungrounded.” “We place on your conscience the ungrounded accusations against the Russian military, which are not confirmed by any eyewitnesses,” Nebenzia said in translated remarks. The ambassador recalled Zelensky’s election to the Ukrainian presidency in 2019, stating that hopes that Zelensky would end the fighting in the Donbas region of Ukraine “failed to materialize.” Nebenzia also repeated past claims that “a huge amount of lies about Russian soldiers and military” continue to proliferate. Addressing Zelensky directly, Nebenzia concluded his remarks by claiming Russia “came to … Ukraine” to bring peace, not to “conquer lands.” Nebenzia’s words echoed those of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov earlier Tuesday, who called the allegations not only “groundless, but … a well-staged tragic show” and “a forgery in order to try to denigrate the Russian army.”=== Auto sales in Russia plummeted by almost two-thirds in March, as the war in Ukraine, Western sanctions and an exodus of foreign businesses wreaked havoc on the country’s economy. Just 55,000 new cars and light commercial vehicles were sold in Russia last month, down 63% from March 2021, according to data released Wednesday by the Association of European Business (AEB), a group representing foreign investors in Russia. All brands — European, American and Asian — suffered losses, but the hardest hit among the big sellers were Volkswagen, whose sales fell by 74%, followed by the German group’s Škoda brand and Toyota (TM). In February, overall sales fell just 4.8%, association data showed. Lexus, Toyota’s luxury brand, also took a severe hit: Sales collapsed 91%, the most of any make. Porsche, also part of the Volkswagen (VLKAF) group, saw its sales slump by 73%. Western carmakers ran for the exit following Russian President Vladimir Putin’s decision to invade Ukraine in February. Toyota and Volkswagen were among a raft of companies to announce last month that they had stopped production and halted exports to the country. France’s Renault, which owns Russian carmaker AvtoVAZ, recently said it was suspending all activities at its Moscow factory, and “assessing the available options” regarding its stake in the company. The collapse of the ruble also pushed the average price of a new car in Russia up by between 35% and 45% in March, according to Russian car market analytics website Autostat. But splashing out on a new car will likely fall low on most Russians’ list of priorities. Since the invasion, annual inflation in Russia has surged to nearly 16%, Reuters reported. The price of staple goods, including sugar and tomatoes has shot up, and there have been reports of shortages in supermarkets after a spate of panic buying. An opening for China? Domestic car models like the AvtoVAZ-owned Lada — an icon of Soviet-era self-reliance — could, in theory, stand to benefit from the absence of foreign competition. But sanctions have snarled supply chains, leading to a severe parts shortage. The company has brought forward a company-wide summer vacation to April, and announced it will move to a 4-day week for three months from June to try to save the jobs of more than 40,000 employees. The company says it is also designing new versions of several Lada models to be less reliant on imported parts. Chinese carmakers could capitalize on the departure of Western brands, said Carol Thomas, central and eastern European analyst at consultancy LMC Automotive. “Chinese brands will no doubt see the current situation as an opportunity and there is a chance more will look to establish a Russian production base in the future,” she said. China’s Great Wall Motors and Geely saw strong growth in sales in Russia over the first quarter as a whole, and suffered narrower losses than Western rivals in March.===The United States is on the brink of a retirement crisis. The primary savings tool for Americans – your 401(k) – isn’t helping. By the end of the decade, about 21% of the country’s population will be 65 or older, up from 15% in 2016, according to forecasts by the Census Bureau. Most non-retired adults have some type of retirement savings, but only 36% think their savings are on track. Now, Congress is looking to help Americans save by bolstering 401(k) programs – the tax-deferred, company-sponsored retirement accounts to which employees can contribute income, and employers can match their contributions. A new bill, expected to reach President Joe Biden’s desk by the end of the year, could require most employer-sponsored retirement plans to enroll their workers automatically, making it easier for student-loan borrowers to save, and for older workers to make catch-up contributions. It will also lower costs for smaller businesses. Retirement savings in the United States were long thought of as a three-legged stool. Americans had pension plans, Social Security benefits, and defined contribution plans like the 401(k). Not any more. Pension plans are nearly extinct. About half of private sector workers were covered by those so-called defined-benefit plans in the mid-1980s, but by 2021 only 15% of private sector workers had them. Social Security payments still provide about 90% of income for a quarter of older adults, according to Social Security Agency surveys. But the Social Security trust fund is facing a 75-year deficit, and without intervention it will be depleted by the mid-2030s. Lawmakers have faced a decades long political stalemate on how to fix it. What’s left is the 401(k), which 68% of private industry workers have access to, but only 50% use.“I don’t think it was ever anticipated that this would be the primary leg of the stool,” said Jonathan Barber, head of compensation and benefits policy research at Ayco Personal Financial Management, a unit of Goldman Sachs that provides investment services to hundreds of US companies and more than a million corporate employees. Indeed, the 401(k) was never designed to be the primary retirement tool for Americans when it was introduced into the US tax code in 1978. “When it works, it works really well,” said Sri Reddy, senior vice president of retirement and income solutions for Principal Financial Group. The 401(k) naturally appeals as a savings vehicle to Americans who bring in more money, say critics. Under the current plan, an employee in the highest tax bracket saves 37%. But an employee in the lowest tax bracket would gain a pre-tax advantage of saving only 10% on deferred income. The tax breaks for these retirement savings are expected to cost the government nearly $200 billion this year, with most of those benefits going to the top 20% of earners, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Less than 40% of lower-paid workers have retirement accounts, compared with 80% of middle- and upper-income families, according to Vanguard. Making a 401(k) plan more accessible doesn’t help Americans who don’t have money to save in the first place. Still, Congress thinks there’s a solution. In late 2019, one of the most significant pieces of retirement legislation in the past 15 years, was signed into law by President Donald Trump: the bipartisan Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement, or SECURE Act. The bill removed maximum age limits on retirement contributions, provided tax credits for small businesses to offer their employees 401(k) plans, and extended retirement benefits to some long-term but part-time employees. Last week Congress almost unanimously passed another bill, SECURE 2.0, that has even broader changes. The Senate is expected to pass its version in the coming weeks. Here’s a look at how the primary retirement savings plan in the US may soon change. Automatic enrollment In what would be the largest change to the 401(k) program, SECURE 2.0 would require employers to automatically enroll all eligible workers into their 401(k) plans at a savings rate of 3% of salary. (Many employees currently have to opt in and then choose their contribution level.) The new rule also applies to the 403(b), a similar program for employees of certain public and tax-exempt organizations. Enrolled workers’ contribution rates would be automatically increased each year by 1% until their contribution reaches 10% annually. While workers have the option to opt out of the plan or change their contribution level after they enroll, automatically enrolling workers into these plans would make a huge change in younger and low-waged employees’ participation in the program.A 2012 study cited in the SECURE 2.0 bill found that, “[t]he most dramatic increases in enrollment rates are among younger, low-paid employees, and the racial gap in participation rates is nearly eliminated among employees subject to auto-enrollment.” About one in six of employers already offer automatic enrollment, and about 90% of new hires who use them participate in retirement plans, compared with just 28% under voluntary enrollment, according to a recent study by Vanguard, the largest provider of mutual funds in the United States. Pre-retirees save more Older workers who are between the ages of 62 and 64 can increase their catch-up contributions to $10,000 a year, up from $6,500 now. Beginning in 2023, these catch-up contributions would be taxed as Roth contributions, meaning they’d be taxed before being invested for retirement, though earnings would be indexed to inflation. People generally earn more as they age, said Reddy, and people in their 60s are typically earning more than they spend. Giving them the ability to increase their contributions makes a huge difference in retirement savings. “If you have people who are motivated and have incremental means, it’s a wonderful way of helping them get caught up for retirement,” he said. Barber, who heads up benefits research at Goldman Sachs’ Ayco Personal Financial Management, worries that this change may be overly complex. Currently, most 401(k) contributions come from employees’ paychecks pre-tax, so investors don’t really feel the bite until they’re ready to withdraw their savings. Under the new plan, the catch-up contribution will be raised, but employees must pay taxes before they contribute. For investors, “that might be a shock to some people who don’t understand the financial impact of that, especially if they’ve never had a Roth account,” said Barber.===Leading oil company CEOs declined on Wednesday to endorse a call from Democrats to reduce dividends and share buybacks and plow the money into ramping up production instead.During a hearing, Rep. Frank Pallone, a New Jersey Democrat, asked the top executives from ExxonMobil (XOM), Chevron, BP, Shell, Pioneer Natural Resources and Devon Energy if they would commit to “doing whatever it takes,” including not just increasing production but reducing dividends and buybacks to lower prices for American consumers. The questions echoed a letter from House Oversight Chair Carolyn Maloney and Rep. Ro Khanna this week asking the major companies to scrap their buybacks and dividends during the Ukraine war and instead lower prices for consumers. None of the executives agreed to do so. ‘The answer is no on dividends’ US oil production remains below pre-Covid levels, even as oil prices have nearly doubled. “We can increase production and return value to shareholders,” Chevron (CVX) CEO Mike Wirth said in response. BP (BP) America CEO David Lawler said he “can’t commit” to cutting buybacks and dividends. Gretchen Watkins, the president of Shell (RDSA) USA, said her company believes it can return value to shareholders, boost supply of oil and invest in renewables. “We will be doing all of that,” Watkins said. And Scott Sheffield, the CEO of Pioneer Natural Resources (PXD), said his company will increase production but flatly declined to dial back dividends. “The answer is no on dividends,” Sheffield said. Lawmakers fired back with strong complaints, suggesting that the executives should be squarely focused on shareholders, particularly during the war in Ukraine.“During this Russian war, you are ripping the American people off and it must end,” said California Democrat Rep. Raul Ruiz, who also referenced a recent Dallas Federal Reserve survey in which 59% of oil executives said investor pressure to maintain capital discipline is the primary reason publicly traded oil producers are restraining growth. “Gas prices cannot continue to be dependent on the whims of autocrats like Putin who can weaponize oil against us,” Ruiz said. Pallone, meanwhile, said oil companies are devoting $45 billion in share buybacks plus another $40 billion in dividends. “That’s a lot of money to shareholders, but it’s coming at the expense of the American people, who need you to increase production, not shareholder wealth,” Pallone said. “For the American people to have relief from high gas prices your companies need to do their part and increase production to meet demand.” But it’s not that simple, Sheffield said during the hearing. He noted that the oil industry is facing challenges like many other sectors: worker shortages, a lack of supplies and price spikes, all of which have slowed its ability to boost production.\“We are seeing severe supply constraints. We are lacking a lot of equipment. The reason we can’t grow faster is we are lacking rigs,” Sheffield said. “We are seeing severe inflation…and we will continue to see severe inflation over the next several years.” The Pioneer CEO added that companies are struggling to hire workers, echoing concerns voiced by other industries. “Who wants to come back and work in the oil and gas industry? We can’t get people back,” Sheffield said, noting that the 2020 oil crash was the latest in a series of downturns in the boom-to-bust industry. Cutting ties with Russia Democratic New York Rep. Paul Tonko criticized oil-and-gas companies for investments in Russia since Moscow annexed Crimea in 2014, arguing those projects have “helped to fund Putin’s war chest.” Woods, the Exxon CEO, reiterated that his company plans to terminate its final project in Russia, a promise it made a month ago. “It’s rather complex because we are operating offshore rigs in deep waters and environmentally sensitive areas,” Woods said during the hearing. “We are working our way through that as expeditiously as possible.” Asked if Exxon’s investments in Russia are in the best interests of the United States, the CEO cited bipartisan support over the years for those ties. “Both Democratic and Republican administrations have encouraged our investments as a way to bring Western values into Russia and benefit the Russian people,” Woods said. Wirth, the Chevron CEO, was asked to commit to terminating all operations in Russia — including supplying Russian companies with lubricants and other materials. “We’ve halted all those sales, and for the foreseeable future, there is no way those will resume,” Wirth said. Lawler of BP America said that within 96 hours of the invasion, his company announced its intention to exit its stake in the Russian oil giant Rosneft, taking a writedown of up to $25 billion. “BP was horrified with the military action in the war against Ukraine,” Lawler said. “The company is quite serious about our response.” Watkins said Shell is moving as “fast as we possibly can” to fully divest from Russia. The leader of the West Virginia chapter of the Proud Boys pleaded guilty on Wednesday to illegally entering the US Capitol grounds on January 6, 2021. Jeffrey Finley, 29, faces up to one year in prison.The plea could be a significant step in one of the Justice Department’s most crucial investigations related to the attack, as prosecutors home in on what Proud Boys leaders had planned as they descended on the Capitol. Finley has corroborated evidence prosecutors may use in other cases.According to the plea agreement read in court, Finley was among the first group to breach the Capitol grounds. Though Finley was not charged with other members of the Proud Boys, prosecutors say he was photographed with some of the group’s leaders marching on the grounds. Finley also wore an earpiece during the riot. Prosecutors have alleged that Proud Boys members used radios – and some wore earpieces – to communicate on January 6. And Finley took part in Telegram message channels that prosecutors have relied upon in making their cases. Just after 2 p.m. that day, Finley moved with the mob to the Upper West Terrace and messaged a Telegram channel titled “Boots on the Ground.” Prosecutors have alleged that channel was used by Proud Boys leaders to communicate, including reposting instructions from leader Enrique Tarrio. Almost two hours later, Finley sent another message to the “Boots on the Ground” channel saying, “I just got out myself” and “we literally can’t get back in… if you guys come out you aren’t getting back in.” In the days after the riot, according to the plea agreement, Finley deleted photographs, videos and messages with other Proud Boys at the Capitol. Finley instructed other members to do the same. “No talks about DC,” Finley said in one message. Last month, the Justice Department charged Tarrio with conspiracy. He pleaded not guilty on Tuesday. Prosecutors have indicated in court that there is new evidence that could lead to additional charges or arrests in relation to that case.===From the early days of the pandemic, doctors noticed that in severe cases of Covid-19 – the ones that landed people in the hospital on ventilators with shredded lungs – most of the internal wreckage wasn’t being directly inflicted by the virus itself but by a blizzard of immune reactions triggered by the body to fight the infection. Researchers knew that these so-called cytokine storms were damaging, but they didn’t know why the SARS-CoV-2 virus seemed to be so good at setting them off.A new study published Wednesday in the journal Nature is helping to explain how these immune overreactions happen to Covid-19 patients.The study revealed that the SARS-CoV-2 virus can infect certain kinds of immune cells called monocytes and macrophages. Front-line immune cells are infected Monocytes and macrophages are white blood cells, and they are frontline workers of the immune system. Their job is to circulate in the blood and tissues, to find and destroy pathogens. They do this by eating – or really, surrounding and absorbing – threats like viruses to keep them from being able to infect other cells. Once a bad actor is absorbed, these cells have what can best be described as a cellular garbage disposal, called an endosome, that normally shuts the infectious agent down. In the case of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, however, that doesn’t happen. The virus gets out of the endosome and escapes into the body of the cell, where it starts making copies of itself. “The viruses not only get taken up, but once they get taken up, the virus starts replicating, so that was surprising,” said Dr. Judith Lieberman, a pediatric immunologist at Boston Children’s Hospital, who led the research. A virus starting to make copies of itself in the body is never a good thing, but when this happens to these protector cells, it sets off a next-level set of alarms. A fiery death These alarms, in turn, summon agents called inflammasomes that, in essence, respond by burning it all down. They help the infected cell die by pyroptosis, or “fiery death.” Pyroptosis is a newly recognized phenomenon. It happens in other diseases, too, like sepsis. “When cells die by pyroptosis, they release all kinds of inflammatory proteins that cause fever and summon more immune cells to the site,” Lieberman said. It sets off a cascade of crisis signals that’s very difficult to stop. “We don’t have any way of treating that once it gets started. It’s just sort of it’s like a little fire. It spreads and explodes and no fire extinguisher is capable of putting it out,” she said. “I think it’s really elegant,” said Donna Farber, a professor of microbiology and immunology at Columbia University, describing the study. “They actually put some pieces together that hadn’t been put together before.” She was not involved in the research. In comparing the blood cells of healthy people to those of both people who came hospital with Covid-19 and the blood of people who had pneumonia from other causes, researchers found this process seems to happen more often with Covid-19. “All the patients we studied had signs of respiratory distress and pneumonia. The ones who had [SARS-CoV-2] had many more of these inflammasomes and dying cells,” Lieberman said. “So it’s likely that [SARS-CoV-2] is particularly good at inducing it, but we don’t know why.” Lieberman said that the study also helps to explain why people who are older or have underlying health problems like obesity or diabetes have higher risks for severe outcomes with Covid-19. Those conditions are already associated with some level of inflammation in the body. “They’re much, much more likely to start these inflammatory fires,” she said. “They have sort of a low slow burn going on anyway. And once it gets started it’s really hard to put out the fire.” The role of antibodies There’s another piece of the process, though, that suggests a way it might be stopped, and that’s how the virus gets into these white blood cells. Monocytes and macrophages lack ACE-2 receptors, the doors that the virus uses to dock onto and infect other kinds of cells. Instead, the virus enters these cells because of another immune system helper – the Y-shaped antibodies that grab onto the virus in an attempt to block it from docking onto our cells. When antibodies grab viruses, the tail of the antibody – called the FC portion – sticks out. That stalk acts a flag to wave down monocytes and macrophages to let them know there’s a bad guy to pick up. Not all monocytes recognize the same antibodies. The study found people with Covid-19 tended to have more of an unusual type of monocyte that had CD16 receptors. These receptors recognize the stalks of antibodies that the body makes to fight the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Those antibodies connect to monocytes with CD16 receptors, triggering the cell to absorb the virus. Once inside, the virus starts trying to copy itself, setting off the damaging inflammatory reaction. John Wherry, director of the Institute for Immunology at the University of Pennsylvania’s Perelman School of Medicine, said that’s something we’ve been wondering about with Covid-19 infections, whether there might be some kind of antibody enhancement of disease. Wherry was not involved in the study. He said this can happen with other infections, too, like dengue fever. The more times a person gets infected with the dengue virus, the sicker they get with each subsequent bout. That’s the opposite of what’s supposed to happen. A person who recovers from an infection usually has better protection against future ones. Druggable targets Wherry said there’s no evidence that the antibodies facilitating these severe inflammatory reactions come from prior infections or from other kinds of coronaviruses. He said antibodies are made quickly in infections and that the ones at work here were probably made in response to the person’s current illness. In that way, it’s different than what happens with dengue. However, the antibodies generated by vaccines don’t seem to facilitate monocyte infections and the inflammatory cascades that follow. They tested that in the study. “I think what was interesting about this is it could provide a clue and perhaps even some druggable targets for why some of the inflammation that we see in severe Covid patients might get kick started the wrong way or proceed out of control,” Wherry said. “So that’s where I think this is quite interesting.”