Uvalde Mayor Don McLaughlin: This is a public safety problem, a public health problem, and a humanitarian crisis. This administration is doing nothing about it. The White House confirmed Wednesday that illegal immigrants are being provided with electronic devices, notably cell phones, in an effort for the Biden administration to "track" and "check in" with them as they await immigration court proceedings. Asked by White House correspondent Peter Doocy about the initiative, White House press secretary Jen Psaki the purpose was to monitor illegal immigrants. "We need to take steps to ensure that we know where individuals are and we can track and we can check in with them," Psaki said. HAWLEY GRILLS BIDEN ADMIN ON MIGRANT SURGE, WHETHER DHS PLANS TO GIVE PHONES TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS "The Alternatives to Detention Program, which is what we utilize, has three unique forms of technology to monitor participants enrolled in the program," Psaki said. "Telephonic is one of them, which uses a participant's voice to create a biometric voiceprint during the enrollment process. And when the participant has a check-in call, their voice is compared to the voiceprint." "Smartlink, which is another option, enables participant monitoring via smartphone or tablet using facial matching technology to establish identity," Psaki continued. She also noted the government's "Global Positioning System" which monitors the location and movement history of illegal immigrants awaiting trial through an ankle bracelet. Psaki said the handing out of smartphones "is all part of our effort as individuals come into the United States and individuals who are entering who will proceed to immigration proceedings to monitor and track where they are." She said the "vast, vast majority of people are appearing" on time as a result of the Biden administration's monitoring efforts. Doocy asked Psaki whether there was concern by anyone in the administration that some migrants may decide to take the phones and "toss them." "Do you have a record people throwing phones away," she responded. "I'm just asking if that's a concern," Doocy said. "Our concern is ensuring that individuals who irregularly migrate to the United States proceed through our process of, you know, of course, being monitored, but also participating in hearings to determine whether or not they will be able to stay," Psaki said. Psaki then claimed the "vast, vast majority of people are appearing in part, we have these monitors, monitoring systems in order to do that effectively," she added. In a Wednesday letter sent to Department of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas, Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri inquired about "reports that DHS plans to provide migrants with free phones." "These reports demand answers," Hawley said in the letter first obtained by. The senator wrote that U.S. Customs and Border Protection "reported over two million encounters with aliens illegally crossing the southern border" in 2021, which Hawley says is "the highest number ever recorded," and pointed out some apprehended illegal migrants "have been identified as previously deported MS-13 gang members."=== national correspondent Bill Melugin updates 'The Faulkner Focus' on the growing number of Democrats warning President Biden against reversing Title 42. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said Wednesday that undocumented migrants released into his state will be shipped to the steps of the U.S. Capitol in Washington D.C., as border checkpoints struggle to manage the flow of people attempting to enter the United States and the Biden administration's move to eliminate the Title 42 expulsion provision. The state will provide charter buses to drop off migrants – many released into small Texas communities that officials say are overwhelmed – in Washington, the Republican governor said in a news conference. "We are sending them to the United States Capitol where the Biden administration will be able to more immediately address the needs of the people that they are allowing to come across our border," Abbott said. He noted that cities along the Texas-Mexico border have bused migrants to San Antonio. "So I said I got a better idea. As opposed to busing these people to San Antonio, let's continue the ride all the way to Washington D.C.," Abbott said. The first location where migrants will be dropped off is the U.S. Capitol, officials said. W. Nim Kidd, chief of the Texas Division of Emergency Management, said his agency will "use as many buses as we need" to follow Abbott's directive. In past emergencies, up to 900 buses have been activated for evacuations, he said. In addition, Abbott signed an order directing the state Department of Public Safety to conduct "enhanced" inspections of vehicles crossing into the U.S. from Mexico to ensure residents are not put in danger by unsafe vehicles or unsafe drivers. He also announced actions to deter illegal immigration, such as using razor wire in low-water crossings. This week, the Texas National Guard will begin the first phase of "mass migration" rehearsals in preparation for a potential influx of migrants at the border, officials said. "If you're a caravan organizer and you think you're going to overwhelm or overrun a port of entry, we'll be there waiting for you," said Maj. General Thomas Suelzer, the Texas National Guard adjutant general. Areas along the Texas-Mexico border used heavily by human smugglers will also see increased lighting at night, officials said. The actions announced Wednesday will be funded by local taxpayers. "Securing the border does not come cheap," Abbott said. "Securing the border would cost Texas nothing if the federal government was doing its job, but because Joe Biden is not securing the border, the state of Texas is having to step up and spend Texas taxpayer money doing the federal government's job." The plan comes weeks before Title 42 is slated to expire on May 23. The Trump-era health order has been used to expel migrants at the southern border since the COVID-19 pandemic. === Former U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley on the U.S. imposing additional sanctions against Russia during their war on Ukraine. President Biden announced sanctions targeting Russian President Vladimir Putin’s daughters Wednesday as part of punishments related to alleged war crimes in Ukraine. The sanctions will hit Mariya Putina and Katerina Tinkonova, Putin’s two adult daughters, as well as Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin; the wife and children of Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov; and members of Russia’s Security Council, including former president and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev. RUSSIA INVADES UKRAINE: LIVE UPDATES The penalties cut off all of Putin’s family members from U.S. financial systems and freezes any assets they hold in America. "I made clear that Russia would pay a severe and immediate price for its atrocities in Bucha," Biden said in a tweet. He predicted the sanctions would wipe out 15 years of economic gains in Russia. The sanctions will hit a much-recovered Russian economy, which will test the country’s seemingly newfound stability. The ruble has recovered some of its lost value, with $1 equal to around 84 RUB as of Wednesday. The exchange rate prior to the invasion saw $1 equal to roughly 83.53 RUB, with the peak at around 139 RUB. NIKKI HALEY SLAMS BIDEN ADMIN FOR ‘RUNNING SCARED’ OF RUSSIA, ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Initial panic following the implementation of sanctions led to Russian citizens trying to pull their money from the bank, which forced banks to then borrow heavily from the Bank of Russia to meet demand. The Wall Street Journal argued that strict limits from Russia’s Central Bank on currency exchange, withdrawals and hard-currency transfers helped to rein in the wild fluctuations that initially spooked officials into shutting down trading on the Moscow Exchange for almost a month. But some experts question the long-term strength of Russia’s recovery. 200 RUSSIANS SENT PACKING FOLLOWING ESPIONAGE ACCUSATIONS IN EUROPE "I think it’s just part of the process … I don’t think this is any meaningful recovery, it’s an ongoing process," Andrew Kim, a research fellow in economic freedom at the Heritage Foundation. "What’s more important and more critical is the next step." The U.K. also announced a heavy raft of new sanctions, including an asset freeze for two major banks, a ban on British investment in Russia and a pledge to end dependency on Russian energy resources by yearend. The European Union also indicated that it will announce new bans on investment and an energy embargo following evidence of atrocities in Ukraine that emerged following Russia’s retreat from the town of Bucha. === A senior U.S. defense official said Wednesday that the atrocities discovered in the Ukrainian suburb of Bucha outside of Kyiv over the last week were "premeditated" and "very deliberate." "Just looking at the imagery, when you see individuals with their hands tied behind their backs and evidence of being shot in the head – that certainly appears to be premeditated. It appears to be planned. It certainly appears to be very, very deliberate," a senior defense official told reporters. "Clearly, the message was sent to the world of Russia's brutality, and that's a message that should not be forgotten here," the official added. Russia prompted global outcry this week after the bodies of hundreds of civilians were found on the streets and in mass graves in Bucha. More than 400 civilians are believed to have been killed by Russian troops in what the U.S., Ukraine and NATO have deemed evidence of war crimes. Russia said last week that as part of the negotiating process it would withdraw troops from the capital city of Kyiv and the northern city of Chernihiv to "increase mutual trust." NATO EXPECTING 'MAJOR OFFENSIVE' FROM PUTIN EASTERN UKRAINE, ALLIANCE PREPARING FOR 'LONG HAUL' WAR Officials have warned that this is a tactic to re-supply and re-arm its troops, and is not an attempt to deescalate the war. The senior U.S. defense official said that over the last 48-hours all Russian forces in and around Kyiv and Chernihiv have "completely withdrawn" and troops in northern Ukraine have moved into Belarus. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told reporters Wednesday that the alliance is expecting a "major offensive" in eastern Ukraine as Russian President Vladimir Putin looks to secure the Donbas region after failing to take Kyiv. Stoltenberg said Putin will look to create a landbridge between the Donbas and Russia, and warned that there have been no indications that the Kremlin’s aim in Ukraine has changed. "We have seen no indication that President Putin has changed his ambition to control the whole of Ukraine and also to rewrite the national order," he told reporters. The senior defense official said it remains unclear exactly when Russia will re-deploy its troops back into Ukraine. === President Biden talked about the war in Ukraine April 6, 2022, and told union workers, "If I gotta go to war, I'm going with you guys." President Biden joked about the possibility of the Russian invasion of Ukraine to expand to directly involve the U.S. military on Wednesday, telling union workers, "If I gotta go to war, I'm going with you guys." Biden made the statement during an address to union workers at the North American Building Trades Unions legislative conference Wednesday. Biden opened his speech with a lengthy section addressing new sanctions against Russia. "This fight is far from over," Biden said. "Here's the point: This war could continue for a long time, but the United States will continue to stand with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people in their fight for freedom." "And by the way, if I gotta go to war I'm going with you guys. I mean it," he added. Biden's statement comes after months of he and other administration officials stating that the U.S. will not deploy troops to Ukraine. The U.S. military has limited its deployments to nearby NATO countries, and warned Russian President Vladimir Putin that invasion of one of those countries would mean direct war with the U.S. Biden has said that avoiding direct war with Russia is a top priority, arguing that any engagement between U.S. and Russian forces would result in a third world war. "I want to be clear: We will defend every inch of NATO territory with the full might of a united and galvanized NATO," Biden tweeted in March. "But we will not fight a war against Russia in Ukraine." "A direct confrontation between NATO and Russia is World War III. And something we must strive to prevent," he added. The Russian invasion in Ukraine has already lasted far longer than U.S. military officials initially predicted. Gen. Mark Milley, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told Congress in an early February closed session that Kyiv could fall within just 72 hours of a Russian invasion. He offered a new prediction during testimony on Tuesday, saying the war will last "at least years, for sure." === President Biden has nominated political donors and Democratic Party notables to ambassadorships at a higher rate than previous administrations, according to a government watchdog. According to the American Accountability Foundation's (AAF), six pending Biden ambassador nominees have given a total of almost $13 million in Democratic political contributions over the course of their careers. This compounds the already high ratio of political donors among Biden's nominations – and raises questions about a promise Biden made during his campaign. "Biden broke another campaign promise as he stacks his ambassador nominees with some of the deepest campaign pockets of the left-wing agenda," said American Accountability Foundation founder Tom Jones. "No one should be able to buy their way into a luxurious position as an ambassador." Biden did promise to nominate based on qualifications and suitability for the job in his campaign, but the then-hopeful for the Oval Office refused to rule out donors as nominees well before the election. "I’m going to appoint the best people possible," Biden told reporters at a stop on his "No Malarky" tour in the run-up to the 2020 election. "Nobody, in fact, will be appointed by me based on anything they contributed." Biden later defended possible future political appointments as "fully qualified people" who "may or may not have contributed" to politics. "You have some of the people out there that are fully qualified to head up everything from being the ambassador to NATO to be ambassador to France who may or may not have contributed," Biden clarified. A majority of President Biden’s nominees to ambassadorships thus far have been political appointees – frequently big Democratic donors and key party players. A higher percentage of political nominees have been nominated under Biden than his predecessors. Politically-minded ambassador appointments are a practice simultaneously condemned and practiced by both sides of the aisle. President Trump nominated Woody Johnson, the owner of the New York Jets who raised money for Trump's presidential campaign and donated funds to help pay for inaugural festivities, to become the U.S. ambassador to the United Kingdom. While rewarding donors might seem as old as presidential elections, the practice has become more of a problem with each administration. According to data from the American Foreign Service Association in 2021, 26 ambassador nominees were already drawn from the ranks of career foreign service agents compared to 29 from "other," or political, appointees. Biden's current course puts him at 53% political appointees, though many spots remain without a nominee. In 2021, the association noted 43.5% of outgoing President Trump’s ambassadors were political appointees. That was considered relatively high compared to 30% of politically appointed ambassadors under former President Barack Obama, 31% under George W. Bush and 28% by Bill Clinton.